# Network

## Feature overview

As mentioned in [Design concept of OpenKruiseGame](../design-concept.md), the access network of game servers is the main concern of game developers.
For a non-gateway architecture, game developers need to consider how to expose external IP addresses and ports of game servers for access by players.
Different network products are usually required for access in different scenarios, and the network products may be provided by different cloud service providers. This increases the complexity of the access network. Cloud Provider & Network Plugin of OpenKruiseGame is designed to resolve this issue.
OpenKruiseGame integrates different network plugins of different cloud service providers. You can use GameServerSet to set network parameters for game servers. Moreover, you can view network status information in the generated GameServer. This significantly reduces the complexity of the access network of game servers.

## Network plugins

Each cloud provider's network plugins are documented on their own page; pick the provider you deploy on.

- [Kubernetes network plugins](network/kubernetes.md)
- [AlibabaCloud network plugins](network/alibabacloud.md)
- [Volcengine network plugins](network/volcengine.md)
- [AmazonWebServices network plugins](network/amazonwebservices.md)
- [TencentCloud network plugins](network/tencentcloud.md)
- [JdCloud network plugins](network/jdcloud.md)
- [HwCloud network plugins](network/hwcloud.md)

## Network Isolation

Consider the following scenarios, such as:

- A major anomaly occurs in the game server, and players need to be prevented from connecting
- Before the version is updated, the player's network connection is cut off
- Other temporary service-related needs, and the service will be reopened after the operation and maintenance is processed

Compared to the method of directly deleting the game server Pod, network isolation at the access layer is a simpler and lighter operation. It can retain the Pod and GameServer metadata information without reconstruction, which improves the efficiency of reopening the service.

### Usage

GameServer.Spec has a NetworkDisabled field. The default NetworkDisabled of the GameServer generated by the GameServerSet is false, which means that network isolation will not be set when the game server is deployed at first.

When the game server has a network isolation requirement, you can set GameServer.Spec.NetworkDisabled to true manually (kubectl/K8s API) / custom service quality to start network isolation; when it is set to false, the network will be restored.

It should be noted that the network isolation function is provided by each network plugin, and users need to check whether the corresponding plugin supports the network isolation function when using the network plugin.

## Access to network information

GameServer Network Status can be obtained in two ways

### k8s API
Call the K8s API and get the GameServer object. This method is applicable to the central component, usually in the matching service to get the game service network information for routing.

### DownwardAPI
Downward API to sink network information into the business container for use by the game service business container

An example of this method is as follows.

```yaml
apiVersion: game.kruise.io/v1alpha1
kind: GameServerSet
metadata:
  name: gs-slb
  namespace: default
spec:
  replicas: 1
  updateStrategy:
    rollingUpdate:
      podUpdatePolicy: InPlaceIfPossible
  network:
    networkType: AlibabaCloud-SLB
    networkConf:
    - name: SlbIds
      value: "xxx"
    - name: PortProtocols
      value: "xxx"
    - name: Fixed
      value: "true"
  gameServerTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: registry.cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/gs-demo/gameserver:network
          name: gameserver
          volumeMounts:
            - name: podinfo
              mountPath: /etc/podinfo
      volumes:
        - name: podinfo
          downwardAPI:
            items:
              - path: "network"
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.annotations['game.kruise.io/network-status']
```

field description:
- Declare volumeMounts in the corresponding container field, defining the access path, in this case /etc/podinfo
- Declare the downwardAPI in gameServerTemplate.spec, set the filename to "network" and specify to use "game.kruise.io/network-status "Note that the annotation key should be in single quotes '', double quotes pod will fail to be created.

After the successful creation of business pods and containers, a network file exists under the corresponding /etc/podinfo path, which records the serialized network information, which can be decoded into the corresponding structure by json and used in the program to obtain the corresponding fields. The decoded sample is as follows (golang version)

```go
package demo
import (
	"encoding/json"
	"github.com/openkruise/kruise-game/apis/v1alpha1"
    "os"
)

func getNetwork()  {
	network, err := os.ReadFile("/etc/podinfo/network")
	if err != nil {
		return
	}
	
	networkStatus := &v1alpha1.NetworkStatus{}

	err = json.Unmarshal(network, networkStatus)
	if err != nil {
		return
	}
	
	// accessing the networkStatus fields
}

```

When getting network information, you may face the situation that the network status is not ready, you can add a loop in the programme to continuously detect the network status until the network status is Ready and then get the network information data. The following is the corresponding shell script.

```shell
# Initialise JSON string to empty
json=''

# Loop until you get the data
while [ -z "$json" ]; do
    # Reading a JSON string from a file
    json=$(cat /etc/podinfo/network)

    # Check if currentNetworkState is Ready
    currentNetworkState=$(echo $json | jq -r '.currentNetworkState')
    if [ "$currentNetworkState" != "Ready" ]; then
        echo "currentNetworkState is not Ready, sleeping 1 second..."
        sleep 1
        json=''
    fi
done

# Parsing the ip and port of externalAddresses
echo "externalAddresses:"
ip=$(echo $json | jq -r '.externalAddresses[0].ip')
port=$(echo $json | jq -r '.externalAddresses[0].ports[0].port')
echo " IP: $ip, Port: $port"
```

## FAQ

Q: How to change the network plugin configuration?

A: The default parameters can be changed by editing the configmap under the kruise-game-system namespace. After the change, rebuild kruise-game-manager to make the configuration take effect. It is recommended that the cluster game service already uses the OKG network plug-in does not easily change the corresponding configuration, and should do a reasonable network planning in advance.
